# Checking the status of containers

We previously learned how to start new containers from a docker image. Now, we need a way to check the status of our existing containers. This is where `docker ps` and `docker ps -a` comes into play.

For this, let's create another container:

`docker run -it --name itsm_hello alpine:latest echo "hello"`
By now, you should be able to read, what it does. We're telling docker to fire up a new container from the alpine:latest image and in there, run `echo "hello"`, which will print hello.
Notice, that with the `--name itsm_hello` we gave our container a specific name. This will be important soon.


Now let's see what happened to our container. We use `docker ps` in order to display **actively** running containers.
What you see now is a table:
`CONTAINER ID   IMAGE     COMMAND   CREATED   STATUS    PORTS     NAMES`

Most likely this table is empty. Our `itsm_hello` container printed "hello" and with that the container did its job. Container will always run as long as the command it should execute doesn't terminate. 


But we got another flag here: 
`docker ps -a`{{exec}}
The `-a` stands for **all**.
Now, you'll see a list with all containers from previous runs that you executed. 
The `COMMAND` column shows you the command the container was executing. `NAME` shows you the name of the container. If we don't specify one, one will be autogenerated. But, you should see in one row our `itsm_hello` container. Furthermore, you can see that it was created several minutes ago (`CREATED`) and is currently offline/EXITED (`STATUS`). Finally, you can see the `IMAGE` that was used for the creation of the container.

So just remember: When you want to get a status of currently running or existing container, use `docker ps`{{exec}} or `docker ps -a`{{exec}} respectively.

**As a challenge:** 
Instead of `docker run -it` you can use `docker run -d` in order to fire up a container detached, meaning it starts in the background. 
Try running a container from the image `nginx:latest` with its **default** command and in **detached** mode. Give the container the name `nginx_test`.
Check the current container status by using `docker ps`.